Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

1 of 7

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

WatchAudioLive TV

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

Latest Covid-19 vaccine o1ers strong protection against symptomatic infection, including from JN.1, early CDC data shows

By Deidre McPhillips, CNN

3 minute read · Published 1:00 PM EST, Thu February 1, 2024

Updated Covid-19 vaccines provided 54% protection against symptomatic infection among

immunocompetent adults who were recently vaccinated compared with those who did not receive an

updated vaccine, a new report says. Brian Snyder/Reuters

(CNN) — A shot of the latest Covid-19 vaccine can help cut the chances of getting a

symptomatic infection by half, early data from the US Centers for Disease Control and

Prevention suggests.

Vaccine manufacturers updated their formulations to target the Omicron variant

XBB.1.5, which was the predominant circulating strain for much of 2023. But the new

CDC data shows that the latest vaccines are similarly effective against JN.1, which has

been causing most Covid-19 infections in the United States since late December.

RELATED ARTICLE

2 of 7

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

Some states are loosening their Covid isolation guidelines, shifting away from CDC recommendations

For this analysis, researchers analyzed trends among more than 9,000 adults who were

tested for Covid-19 at Walgreens and CVS Pharmacy locations between mid-September

and mid-January. For some of the patients with positive tests, the researchers were

able to test for a specific “quirk” in the virus that allowed them to differentiate between

specific strains.

Overall, the updated Covid-19 vaccines provided 54% protection against symptomatic

infection among immunocompetent adults who were recently vaccinated compared

with those who did not receive an updated vaccine, according to the report published

Thursday by the CDC.

“Everything from this study is reassuring that the vaccines are providing the protection

that we expected,” said Ruth Link-Gelles, lead author of the new study who heads the

CDC’s vaccine effectiveness program for Covid and RSV. “While we don’t have an

estimate of vaccine effectiveness specific to immunocompromised people, the fact that

the vaccine is working in the general population provides, I think, reassurance for the

whole population.”

Generally, the goal of the US Covid-19 vaccination program is to prevent severe disease,

but measuring vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic infection offers an extra early

look at how well the vaccines are working. It’s often the first estimate that’s available

because more people get an infection than are hospitalized, so there’s a large enough

population to study sooner, Link-Gelles said.

“That’s a really nice feature of this analysis, that it checks that box: Yes, the vaccine is

working, it’s providing protection, it’s providing protection for JN.1, which is the current

most common variant,” she said.

The latest Covid-19 vaccines have only been available since September, after a

recommendation from the CDC’s independent vaccine advisory committee and official

signoff from the agency and the US Food and Drug Administration, so this analysis was

only able to track trends through about four months after vaccination.

Based on the trends from Covid-19 vaccines, it’s expected that protection from the

latest vaccine will wane over time. A very slight “hint” of that was observed in the new

study, Link-Gelles said. But the CDC plans to continue to monitor the effectiveness of

3 of 7

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

study, Link-Gelles said. But the CDC plans to continue to monitor the effectiveness of

the latest vaccine, and additional analysis at later dates will help determine how well

vaccines are working to prevent severe disease and how quickly protection may wane.

GET CNN HEALTH'S WEEKLY NEWSLET TER

Sign up here to get The Results Are In with Dr. Sanjay Gupta every Tuesday from the CNN Health team.

The US doesn’t have a system in place to track Covid-19 cases, but wastewater data

suggests that Covid-19 continues to circulate at high levels in the US and there are still

tens of thousands of Covid-19 hospitalizations and hundreds of deaths each week.

During the week ending January 13, there were nearly 31,000 Covid-19 hospitalizations

and more than 1,800 deaths, according to CDC data.

Still, only about 1 in 5 adults and 1 in 9 children have gotten the latest Covid-19 vaccine,

which is recommended for everyone ages 6 months and older, the CDC estimates.

By comparison, nearly half of adults and children have gotten the flu vaccine this

season. And a flu season where the vaccine matches the circulating strain with 50%

effectiveness would be considered a really good match, Link-Gelles said.

“There’s never a bad time to get a Covid vaccine,” she said. “Even with relatively low

levels of hospitalization right now … that extra protection is going to go a long way.”

Up next

Washington Post: CDC to ease Covid-19 isolation guidance

3 minute read

Millions of people have long Covid, including children and pregnant people, studies show

5 minute read

The doctor behind the next big thing in cancer treatment

8 minute read

Respiratory virus season in the US may be past its peak, CDC says

4 of 7

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

Respiratory virus season in the US may be past its peak, CDC says

3 minute read

Smoking’s effects on the immune system can last years, study finds

4 minute read

Most read

1 AT&T says service has been restored after massive, nationwide outage.

Authorities are investigating

2 Wendy Williams diagnosed with aphasia and dementia

3 Biden embraces bully pulpit as he escalates fight against Trump and GOP over

Russia

4 Audrii Cunningham remembered as radiant fifth grader after family friend is

charged with her murder

5 Darryl George: Texas judge rules school district can restrict the length of male

students’ natural hair

6 Putin looms over a third successive US election

7 The death of an Oklahoma teen after a fight in school has LGBTQ+ advocates

seeking answers

8 It’s not just what you eat, according to a doctor. It’s when and how

9 5 things to know about the massive AT&T network outage

10 World’s oldest unchanged brand changes logo for the first time in over 140

years

MORE FROM CNN

The doctor behind the next big thing in

5 of 7

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

the next big thing in cancer treatment

Respiratory virus season in the US may be past its peak, CDC says

Thousands of seniors are still dying of Covid-19. Do we not care ...

NEWS & BUZZ

AT&T says service has been restored after massive, nationwide ...

Wendy Williams diagnosed with aphasia and dementia

Biden embraces bully pulpit as he escalates fight against Trump ...

6 of 7

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

Log In

Live TV

Listen

Watch

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Latest Covid-19 vaccine offers strong protection against symptomatic in...

https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/01/health/updated-covid-vaccine-effect...

World

US Politics

Business

Health

Entertainment

Tech

Style

Travel

Sports

Watch

Features

Weather

More

FOLLOW CNN

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy Manage Cookies+ Ad Choices

Accessibility & CC About Newsletters

Transcripts

© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.

CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

7 of 7

23/2/24, 10:49 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

Watch TV

HEALTH

Largest-ever COVID vaccine study links shot to small increase in heart and brain conditions Researchers from the Global Vaccine Data Network analyzed data from 99 million vaccinated individuals

By Melissa Rudy



Fox News

Published February 19, 2024 3:36pm EST



00:00 / 02:52



Florida surgeon general warns against COVID vaccine

Dr. Joseph Ladapo tells Fox News Digital why he believes the new vaccine is a "terrible idea" and a "major safety concern"

The largest COVID vaccine study to date has identiIed some risks associated with the shot.

Researchers from the Global Vaccine Data Network (GVDN) in New Zealand analyzed 99 million

1 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

people who received COVID vaccinations across eight countries.

They monitored for increases in 13 different medical conditions in the period after people received a COVID vaccine.

The study, which was published in the journal Vaccine last week, found that the vaccine was linked to a slight increase in neurological, blood and heart-related medical conditions, according to a press release from GVDN.

LONG COVID IS HIGHEST IN THESE STATES, SAYS NEW CDC REPORT

People who received certain types of mRNA vaccines were found to have a higher risk of myocarditis, which is inYammation of the heart muscle.

Some viral-vector vaccines were linked to a higher risk of blood clots in the brain, as well as an increased likelihood of Guillain-Barre syndrome, a neurological disorder in which the immune system attacks the nerves.

Researchers from the Global Vaccine Data Network in New Zealand analyzed 99 million people who received COVID

vaccinations across eight countries. (iStock)

Other potential risks included inYammation of part of the spinal cord after viral vector vaccines, and inYammation and swelling in the brain and spinal cord after viral vector and mRNA vaccines, the press release stated.

2 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

SHOULD THE CDC DROP ITS 5-DAY COVID ISOLATION GUIDELINES? DOCTORS WEIGH IN

"The size of the population in this study increased the possibility of identifying rare potential vaccine safety signals," lead author Kristýna Faksová of the Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark, said in the release.

"Single sites or regions are unlikely to have a large enough population to detect very rare signals."

Doctors react to the Undings

Dr. Marc Siegel, clinical professor of medicine at NYU Langone Medical Center and a Fox News medical contributor, was not involved in the research but commented on the Indings.

More than 80% of the U.S. population has received at least one dose of the COVID vaccine, per the CDC. (iStock)

"The massive study and review of the data reveals some rare association of the MRNA vaccines and myocarditis, especially after the second shot, as well as an association between the Oxford Astra Zeneca adenovirus vector vaccines and Guillain Barre syndrome," he told Fox News Digital.

"But these risks are rare," he added, "and other studies show that the vaccine decreases the risk of myocarditis from COVID itself dramatically."

COVID VARIANT JN.1 NO MORE SEVERE THAN PREVIOUS STRAINS, CDC DATA SHOWS

Siegel noted that all vaccines have side effects.

3 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

"It always comes down to a risk/beneIt analysis of what you are more afraid of — the vaccine's side effects or the virus itself, which can have long-term side effects in terms of brain fog, fatigue, cough and also heart issues," he said.

"Denying or exaggerating a vaccine's side effects is not good science — nor is underestimating the risks of the virus, especially in high-risk groups," Siegel added.

"It comes down to a risk/beneHt analysis of what you are more afraid of — the vaccine's side effects or the virus itself."

The key is for doctors and their patients to carefully weigh the risks and beneIts, the doctor emphasized.

"This study does not really change anything; it just provides much further evidence of what we already know," he said.

CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR HEALTH NEWSLETTER

Dr. Jacob Glanville, CEO of Centivax, a San Francisco biotechnology company, also reacted to the study’s Indings.

"This study is conIrming in a much larger cohort what has been previously identiIed in the original studies during the pandemic — myocarditis and pericarditis as a rare side effect of mRNA vaccines and clots as a rare side effect of the viral vectored vaccines," he told Fox News Digital.

4 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

Finley Martin, 14, is seen getting a shot of the PUzer COVID-19 vaccine at the First Baptist Church of Pasadena, May 14, 2021,

in Pasadena, California. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez, File)

"The odds of all of these adverse events are still much, much higher when infected with SARS- CoV-2 (COVID-19), so getting vaccinated is still by far the safer choice."

This study was part of a more widespread research initiative, the Global COVID Vaccine Safety (GCoVS) Project.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

The project is supported by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a component of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

More than 80% of the U.S. population has received at least one dose of the COVID vaccine, per the CDC.

Fox News Digital reached out to PIzer and Moderna, makers of mRNA COVID vaccines, for comment.

FFoorr mmoorree HHeeaalltthh aarrttiicclleess,, vviissiitt wwwwww..ffooxxnneewwss..ccoomm//hheeaalltthh..

Melissa Rudy is health editor and a member of the lifestyle team at Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to

melissa.rudy@fox.com.

U.S.

Politics

Crime

Executive

Military

Senate

Education

House

Terror

Judiciary

Immigration

Foreign Policy

Economy

Polls

Personal Freedoms

Elections

Fox News Investigates

Digital Originals

5 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

World

U.N.

ConYicts

Terrorism

Disasters

Global Economy

Environment

Religion

Scandals

Media

FOX Nation Coverage

Sports

NFL

College Football

MLB

NBA

NHL

Golf

Tennis

Soccer

UFC

WWE

FOX Business

Personal Finance

Economy

Markets

Watchlist

Lifestyle

Real Estate

Tech

6 of 7

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

Opinion

Entertainment

Celebrity News

Movies

TV News

Music News

Style News

Entertainment Video

Lifestyle

Health

Food & Drink

Auto

Travel & Outdoors

Real Estate

House & Home

Fitness + Well-being

Style & Beauty

Family

Faith

Science & Tech

Air & Space

Security

Innovation

Video Games

Military Tech

Planet Earth

Wild Nature

23/2/24, 10:48 am

Risks associated with the COVID vaccine identiﬁed in study | Fox News

https://www.foxnews.com/health/largest-ever-covid-vaccine-study-link...

Watch Live

About

FOX News Shows

Contact Us

Programming Schedule

Careers

On Air Personalities

Fox Around the World

Full Episodes

Advertise With Us

Show Clips

Media Relations

News Clips

Corporate Information

Compliance

Apps & Products

FOX News Go

FOX Weather

FOX Nation

FOX News Shop

FOX News Radio

Outkick

Newsletters

Podcasts

New Terms of Use New Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Closed Caption Policy Help Contact Us

Accessibility Statement

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights

reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered

and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by ReInitiv

Lipper.

7 of 7

23/2/24, 10:48 am